#summary How to take a part in project.
#labels Featured

  * Contact Dmitry Zavalishin (dz), dz@dz.ru - please don't forget to add 'phantom' word to the subject line.
  * Read [http://code.google.com/p/phantomuserland/source/browse/#svn/trunk/doc dox]
  * Checkout project and setup required environment.
  * Select subsystem to care of (see RoadMap) or some subsystem-independent role, such as to work on documentation or testing.
  * Decide with dz and/or with subsystem lead what to do first.
  * Do it!
  * Take a look at CodingStyle to do it right.

Very good start is to do some code review for the part you want to work on, and, possibly, to write some regression tests for it. 

Some possible tasks:

  * AHCI driver
  * virtio disk/net drivers
  * USB HC drivers
  * ARM port, MIPS port

All of that is partially done, and needs to be either finished or fixed.

General directions to move:

  * drivers: as usual, we need more and more of them. Some drivers exist and have to be tuned/fixed, some need to be written. Disk io, USB, video accelerators are good examples. Non-PC drivers are welcome as well.

  * kernel: lot of stuff is not final or not ideal. See issues tab or contact dz.

  * virtaul machine: it is quite obvious how to put libjit in, and it has to be done. There's quite hard refcount cleanup task as well. Full scale offline mark/sweeep on disk GC has to be written too.

  * bytecode translator: jvm to phantom bytecode translator is partially made but is not complete.

  * Dox, including general code comments.

  * PC test setup: we really need regular tests on real hardware.

  * Arm/MIPS ports - QEMU tests, real hardware tests, drivers, debugging, etc.
